+++
title = "Adaptive impedance based force and position control for pneumatic compliant system"

# Date first published.
date = "2017-10-29"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Wenbo Dong", "Renhe Guan", "Letian Yuan", "Xiaoliang Gu", "Ali Anwar", "Weiyang Lin"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "IEEE 43rd Annual Conference of the Industrial Electronics Society (IECON2017)"
publication_short = "IEEE 43rd Annual Conference of the Industrial Electronics Society (IECON2017)"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = ""
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
# [header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption 😄"

+++

**Abstract**

The compliant control of the robot is widely used in the Human-Machine Interface (HMI) and robot bionics. Because the system and the environment are mutually constrained, when the external environment changes, the control environment of the system will change with it, which deteriorates the control performance of the system. This article solves the problem of how to realize the compliant control with changing environment and proposes the adaptive impedance control and compensation based on a specific compliance system. We first model our compliance system by focusing on the system's internal cylinder, pressure difference transmitter its other components and then acquire its transfer function. Then we apply the impedance control and adaptive impedance control to the compliance system. Comparing these two methods, we prove that the adaptive impedance control has better tracking performance and robustness in uncertain environment. Furthermore, the stability of the adaptive impedance compliance system is proved by the Lyapunov function. Finally, we verify this algorithm with a flange experimental platform and design an experiment about contact force between the flange and different objects. The stability and practicability of the experimental algorithm are substantiated.
